Hello this is Kirill from frigs polka dot com.
And welcome back to the course and for extruding in today's tutorial we will talk about Forex market
hours.
We will see in which time zones of forex market operates and how it so happens that the Forex market
is so different to any stock market in the way that it works 24 hours a day.
For this tutorial I really wanted to show you a global map of the world with the forex sessions visualized
on it.
And because I couldn't find a decent one on the net I went ahead and made one of my own and this is
what it looks like and I'll definitely share of you by giving you the link to download it at the end
of this tutorial.
So on this map at the bottom we've got a time axes and the way to read it is from right to left because
the sun rises from east to west.
That axes is in GMT time and then we've got the four main four accessions starting from bottom to top
as they commence through a new day.
So the first one is a signee session then it's a Tokyo session then its a London session and then it's
the New York session.
So what can we see from this visit session on the forex market hours and how can we use this in our
trading.
Let's have a closer look at the sessions one by one and see what exactly happens over 24 hour period
on the forex market.
So this trading session you will notice that the very first session to open during any given day is
the Sydney Forex market session and the Australians are the first nation to wake up into a new day.
It's still twenty two hours so 10 PM of the previous day in London when Sydney banks open up.
So this means that if you live in Europe or in the US and it's Tuesday then you can already trade the
Wednesday Sydney Forex market session and that's just a mind blowing fact that I was very interested
to learn when I first got into forex.
Also you may ask what about the new zealand session and that's a fair point.
New Zealand is located even more to the right from Australia and the New Zealand session starts about
two hours before the Sydney session.
However we've followed the Australian session the liquidity on the New Zealand market is very low.
And so that's why people focus on the Sydney session rather than the New Zealand session.
Moving on the next session is a Tokyo session which follows shortly after this session is also called
the Asian session because right off the Tokyo large economic hubs like Singapore and Hong Kong start
waking up the Asian session starts around midnight GMT when most of Europe is still in a deep sleep
.
And this is why you often hear European traders talking about waking up at 3:00 a.m. just to try the
Asian session before going back to bed.
Also you may have already noticed that some of the four exceptions overlap quite significantly.
For example the Australian section Asian sessions overlap for the majority of the Forex market hours
.
And the good news is that you can use this knowledge to your advantage.
Naturally when these two sessions overlap currency pairs like this trillion dollar Japanese yen and
the New Zealand dollar Japanese yen will have their highest volatility the next session that follows
the Tokyo session is the London session.
Undoubtedly London is the economic center of Europe and it's essential that the European session is
also called the London session.
Moreover by the time banks open up in Great Britain other major economic hubs like Frankfurt Luxembourg
and Zurich have already started into their Forex market hours for the day.
An interesting observation is that the 4 x hours of the Tokyo and London sessions overlap for approximately
one hour and this varies a little bit for other European countries.
And you can and you probably should use this fact to your advantage.
This slide overlap means that all of the crosses of European currencies and the Japanese yen will have
their highest volatility at the start of the European session.
So if you're trading the British pound Japanese yen for instance you can simply carry out a few very
powerful trades between 8:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. GMT and then you're free for the day.
And some traders actually do that.
They capitalized on this narrow window of time when both sessions are open.
They take the most out of the movements of volatile currency pairs like the British pound Japanese yen
and then they've finished their trading very early on in the day.
And they have the rest of the day for themselves.
And finally last session to open up is the new york session for X market hours in the U.S. start with
New York.
And this is because New York is one of the biggest financial centers in the world.
And it is the east most major city in America.
The American section also includes other major economic hubs like Chicago which is the world's largest
market.
And let's not forget about Toronto which is a major Canadian financial hub.
So what happens when you put more firewood into fire.
That's right.
It burns even harder.
And same thing happened here New York and London are the two of the world's biggest financial centers
.
And the American session starts when the European sessions only halfway through.
And of course you're going to get an extremely fast paced and volatile market during that overlap.
And once again you can profit from this.
A lot of the major pairings like the euro dollar pound dollar and the Dulles was Frank experienced massive
movements and specific patterns during this time.
In fact I created a holistic trading strategy for the British pound dollar just based on this one fact
.
The strategy is called simple system version 6.00 and you can find it in my Forex robots.
Course it is an extremely profitable pattern that I discovered for the British pound dollar.
And in that course I give it away for you to for free so if you're interested definitely check out that
course.
And finally to sum up the Forex market hours.
Let's have a look at the end of the New York session.
As you can see even though the Sydney session and the New York session do not overlap they follow each
other back to back.
And this illustrates why the Forex market is open 24 hours a day.
If you take any time zone on this map at least one for accession will always be open.
And in the end I'd like to say that what ever your trading strategy is it is always beneficial to keep
in mind the Forex market hours of the four four sessions.
This is because different sessions are dominated by different types of traders banks governments and
as we discussed different types of currency pairs and taking this into account will certainly give you
a competitive advantage over other Forex traders.
So that brings us to the end of this tutorial.
As promised here's the link to this map.
Just go to www dot forex boat dot com slash Forex high and market high for hours.
And there you can get this map in HD resolution.
I'm also planning on releasing a map like this for every single time zone so soon enough you'll be able
to download this map specific to your location and because it's in HD.
Unlike other 4 x maps on the net you can even use it as your desktop wallpaper.
And that is very handy to always have it in front of your eyes so you can quickly reference in which
Forex market session you're currently trading.
On that note I'll wrap up today's tutorial.
When you do visit me on for ex-beau dot com.
Don't forget to subscribe to the newsletter so that you can get access to more free tools like this
and other tips and tricks.
I look forward to seeing you next time.
And until then happy trading